<h3><strong>This repository contains all interactive figures for the paper titled "Hybrid Mass Spectrometry Methods Reveal Lot-to-Lot Differences and the Effects of Glycosylation on the Structure of Herceptin&reg;".</strong></h3>
<p>Several of the figures from within the main text and the supplementary information were exported in an .html format where the user/reader is able to interact with the figure in ways such as paning, zoomin-in/out, selecting and hiding data or simply hovering. While the figures are not exact copies of those shown in the paper, they are close resemblances. To visualise these, simply click on the links below or download onto your disk and open in a modern browser (i.e. Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge) with access to internet.</p>
<p>Here are the links:</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mAbs_2018/blob/master/Figure_4.html">Figure 4</a>: Deuterium uptake difference plots for heavy chain (HC) intact vs. endoS2 treated Herceptin&reg;; endoS2 - intact. Each bar represents a different peptide (HC sequence coverage = 70.2 %, 55 peptides). Blue bars represent the deuterium uptake differences for Herceptin&reg; lot C; orange bars represent deuterium uptake differences for Herceptin&reg; lot A.</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mABs_2018/blob/master/Figure_S2.html">Figure S2</a>: Mass spectra for Herceptin&reg; (a) fully glycosylated (intact), (b) following endoS2 treatment (truncated glycans) and (c) following PNGase F treatment (fully deglycosylated).</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mAbs_2018/blob/master/Figure_S3.html">Figure S3</a>: Mass spectra for the NIST mAb standard (a) fully glycosylated (intact), (b) following endoS2 treatment (truncated glycans) and (c) following PNGase F treatment (fully deglycosylated).</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mAbs_2018/blob/master/Figure_S4.html">Figure S4</a>: Mass spectra for the IgG1 Fc-hinge fragment (a) fully glycosylated (intact), (b) following endoS2 treatment (truncated glycans) and (c) following PNGase F treatment (fully deglycosylated).&nbsp;</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mAbs_2018/blob/master/Figure_S6.html">Figure S6</a>: <sup>DT</sup>CCSD<sub>He</sub> plots for fully glycosylated (intact), partially deglycosylated (endo S2 treated) and fully deglycosylated (PNGase F treated) IgG1 mAbs (charge state range 22<sup>+</sup> to 25<sup>+</sup>). Data fitted with Gaussians (cumulative fit plotted) and normalised against (IMS area fraction) x (MS peak height fraction). Width of shading around each peak denotes the standard deviation calculated, n=3.</p>
<p><a href="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/BarranLab/Upton_mAbs_2018/blob/master/Figure_S8-11.html">Figure S8-11</a>: Collision energy activated IM-MS heat map of the IgG1 NIST mAb and mAb lot A-C with (a) glycans, (b) truncated (endoS2 treated) glycans and (c) no glycans. Mass selected 24<sup>+</sup> charge state with collision voltage range 4-200 V, n=3.</p>
<hr />
<p><strong>Hybrid Mass Spectrometry Methods Reveal Lot-to-Lot Differences and the Effects of Glycosylation on the Structure of Herceptin&reg;</strong></p>
<p>Rosie Upton<sup>1</sup>, Lukasz Migas<sup>1</sup>, Kamila J. Pacholarz<sup>1</sup>, Richard G. Beniston<sup>2</sup>, David Firth<sup>2</sup>, Sian Estdale<sup>2</sup> and Perdita E. Barran<sup>1</sup></p>
<p><sup>1</sup>Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, Michael Barber Centre for Collaborative Mass Spectrometry, University of Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester, M1 7DN, United Kingdom</p>
<p><sup>2</sup>Covance Laboratories Ltd., Otley Road, Harrogate, HG3 1PY, United Kingdom</p>
<p><strong>Abstract</strong></p>
<p>Appropriate characterisation of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) for therapeutic use is required to establish consistency in batch manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and to fulfil the concordant requirement to maintain critical quality attributes. The presence of post-translational modifications, which in turn can vary from lot to lot, results in heterogenic APIs at the primary sequence level and commensurate heterogeneity in their tertiary/quaternary active folds. For follow-on molecules distinguishing differences in the primary structure of the product as well as the effect this imparts to the intact API should be considered in an evaluation of biosimilarity. Here we present a systematic evaluation of three lots of Herceptin&reg;, and two mAb standards along with an intact Fc-hinge fragment. To consider the effect of glycosylation, each mAb is examined in three states; glycan intact, truncated (following endoS2 treatment) and fully deglycosylated. &nbsp;Mass spectrometry is used to evaluate the similarity of the mAbs and to probe the effect of glycosylation. Despite equivalence at the protein level, each lot of Herceptin&reg; gives a distinctive signature in three different mass spectrometry analyses.&nbsp; Collision cross section measurements from ion mobility mass spectrometry (IM-MS) show that in the API, glycosylation reduces the conformational spread of each mAb, which increases on glycan removal (10.5 &ndash; 25 %). Hydrogen/ deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) supports this, with a lower global deuterium uptake in solution when comparing intact to the fully deglycosylated protein. Following glycan truncation or removal, HDX-MS and activated IM-MS map the influence of this post-translational modification (PTM) on the mAb structure in both cases revealing allosteric effects which extend beyond the Fc-domains and into the Fab domain. Truncation to the chitobiose core results in a form of the mAbs that are highly flexible, possessing wider collision cross section profiles and higher deuterium uptake than either the intact or fully deglycosylated forms. Taken together these findings provide a route for MS based characterisation as well as the establishment of acceptance criteria for biosimilar and new therapeutic mAbs.</p>
